models.md, before:

# Models

In a video where Matt Bruenig lays out what socialism looks like at the firm level, he starts off by asking how we might define socialism on a national level and leaves it off pretty quickly that it's hard to define.

If you analyze the economy and calculate the percent of production, or the percent of employment, that is state-run or state-employed, each country will come in somewhere between 0% and 100%. Unless we can imagine a country that has 0% of its economy run or owned by private/capitalist firms, then there will be no country whose economy is 100% socialist. 

There must be socialists whose goal it is to have 0% of the economy under capitalist organization. 

What composition separates a socialist country from a non-socialist country? 66%? 75%? 99%? Should we conclude that socialism is a spectrum?

Conventional wisdom is that a country is socialist if the current political party in power calls themselves socialist. Chile was socialist under Allende, but then it wasn't after the coup of 1973. China is currently socialist. This strikes me as similar to the thinking of cold warriors who talked the same way about communist countries.

The socialisticness or capitalisticness of a country or an economy should be measured instead by the actual composition of the economy. Indeed, the whole may be greater than the sum of its parts, but even so, we can't ignore the parts! I wish we had a better words to talk about this. "Capitalisticness" is terrible. "Business friendly" doesn't really cut it either. 

The capitalist/socialist spectrum should not be conflated with the private/public spectrum. This was a clear point of confusion during the 2015 bernie campaign. Both the [National Review](https://www.nationalreview.com/2015/10/socialism-united-states-meme/) and [Jacobin](https://jacobin.com/2016/01/democratic-socialism-government-bernie-sanders-primary-president/) posted critiques of the meme that was going around everywhere listing any government action as socialism.

![Socialist Programs meme](attachments/socialist_programs_meme.jpg)

Commit message:

cap/soc composition define soc?

models.md, after:

# Models

Most models of socialism have been scoped at the national level. People want to know: what would a socialist united states look like? A 2014 book made an attempt to answer the question by asking people to [Imagine: Living in a Socialist USA](https://www.harpercollins.com/products/imagine-frances-goldindebby-smithmichael-smith?variant=40973082624034). 

Everyone agrees that the USA is not a socialist country. But if socialism is possible, there will be one day where we will wake up, look out the window and agree "ok, so this is what socialism looks like! We did it!" How might we ever know that? 

One way would be to analyze the economy and calculate the percent of the economy that is owned and managed in a democratic fashion, either by the state or by cooperative firms. Each country will come in somewhere between 0% and 100% socialist/capitalist. Unless we can imagine a country that has 0% of its economy run or owned by private/capitalist firms, then there will be no country whose economy is 100% socialist. 

What mixture, then, defines a socialist country and sets it apart from a non-socialist country? 66% socialist? 75%? 99%? Should we conclude, then, that socialism is a spectrum in all cases?

Another, more common approach, is to instead look at who holds political power in the country and call it socialist if the current political party in power calls themselves socialist. Chile was socialist under Allende, but then it wasn't after the coup of 1973. China is currently socialist.

We might say that a socialist/left government in power is more likely to move the dial on the percent of socialist/capitalist split, but it may not due to all sorts of factors. I'm going to search out instances of this simple definition. Maybe it's not as prevalent as I think on the left itself.

The capitalist/socialist spectrum should not be conflated with the private/public spectrum. This was a clear point of confusion during the 2015 bernie campaign. Both the [National Review](https://www.nationalreview.com/2015/10/socialism-united-states-meme/) and [Jacobin](https://jacobin.com/2016/01/democratic-socialism-government-bernie-sanders-primary-president/) posted critiques of the meme that was going around everywhere listing any government action as socialism.

![Socialist Programs meme](attachments/socialist_programs_meme.jpg)
